NETAJI SUBHAS UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY
EAST CAMPUS
(Formerly AIACTR, Geeta Colony)
PLACEMENT POLICIES 2020-21
The Rules and Regulations for the placement session 2020-21 are as follows:
1) The companies visiting campus for recruitment would be divided into the following 2
categories: -
● Category "A"
● Category "A+"
The category of a company will be decided by the Training and Placement Cell (T&P Cell).
The student cannot forfeit the job offer upon selection. However, already placed Students
may also be allowed to appear only for higher-ranked category companies, if the existing
offer is less than the salary cap decided by the T&P Cell. Only 1 job can be offered to a
student in a category. If a student is offered a second job, after being selected for a job in a
lower-ranked category, then his/her previous offers will get forfeited.
Job offers obtained through National Level Exams such as TCS NQT, Exams for organizations
such as Wipro, Infosys do not lie in any of the above categories. Moreover, T&P Cell has no
restrictions on the number of such offers obtained by each student.
2) T&P will internally see the size of the batch placed and the frequency of the company
from time to time in order to allow A to appear for an A + category company. The decision
to allow a student will be solely a T&P decision and requests to allow A companies to
participate for A+ companies will not be entertained.
3) The update for the categories will depend on the companies' brand value or the CTC
offered or both. It solely lies at the discretion of the T&P Cell to select the category of the
company. No queries to change the category of the company will be entertained.
4) In case of an on-campus offer, all the organizations above 8 LPA in the case of Tech
company and 6 LPA in case of Non-Tech will be under the A+ category. You should make your
choice to appear in the companies carefully as no request to change the cap will be accepted
by T&P.
5) The selection of companies for the A+ category might change depending upon the
frequency of the company and the size of the batch placed from time to time. The decision
for the same will be done by the discretionary decision of T&P.
6) If the candidate has been offered a PPO from an A+ company, he/she will not be allowed
to participate in the placement session 2020-2021. In the case of PPO, all the organizations
equal to or greater than 10 LPA will be under the A+ category.
7) Due to COVID 19, the entire placement process will be conducted virtually until further
notice from T&P.
8) If any student is found interacting with HR or any other executive of the organization,
he/she will be debarred from the entire placement session. All the information shared
through email or any other mode should be kept confidential and sharing any such
information with anyone will lead to strict action against the defaulter.
9) No student is allowed to disclose the details of the placement session (commencement
of the placement session, details about other visiting companies) during their interview, or
later to the company's executive(s). Strict action will be taken against the defaulters.
10) The T&P Cell reserves the right to take a set of following action(s) against those students
who are found in violation of placement rules.
● Temporary Ban as per decision by T&P.
● Debarment from the entire placement season.
11) Action will be taken against those students, found practicing the following:
● Backing out from Process after registering for a company
● Backing out from the Interview after clearing the test.
● Forging data/information during placement sessions.
● Involvement in Malpractices during test or Interview.
● Misbehaving with company officials.
● Misbehaving with T&P official or Placement Committee.
● Misconduct in Online Test/Interviews
12) FOR REGULAR B. TECH STUDENTS -
● The total number of credits of the B.Tech. Programme = 216.
● Each student shall be required to appear for examinations in all the papers. However,
a student shall be required to earn a minimum of 200 credits, including mandatory
papers.
FOR LATERAL ENTRY STUDENTS -
● The total number of credits of the B.Tech. Programme = 162.
● Each student shall be required to appear for examinations in all the papers Third
Semester onwards. However, a student shall be required to earn a minimum of 150
credits, including mandatory papers.
13) FOR M. TECH STUDENTS -
● Each student shall be required to appear for examination in all courses. A student
shall be required to earn a minimum of 100 credits out of 108. However, only Elective
Courses and Term papers may be dropped towards counting for total credits of 100.
14) Students must be formally dressed and report on time whenever they participate in
the recruitment process of any company.
15) Only registered candidates would be allowed to participate in the process, and requests
to register after the deadline will not be entertained. The students should register in the
time frame allotted for the registration.
16) It is mandatory for students to bring their own fully charged laptops for the online tests.
T&P will not be liable to provide charging to students during the test, however, unavoidable
circumstances will be considered.
17) Any hikes/reductions in packages may result in a change of category of the company
even after the recruitment process for the particular company has finished on the campus.
18) Students should maintain discipline and show ethical behavior in every action they take
during the placement process. Action will be taken against any student found violating the
discipline rules set by the company or defaming the institute's name.
19) For all matters not covered by the above regulations, the T&P Cell will use its discretion
to make appropriate decisions. The decision taken by T&P Cell shall be binding on all
students.
All the best to all the students of the batch of 2021.
Regards,
Training and Placement Cell, NSUT East Campus
