NETAJI SUBHAS UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY
ORDINANCE FOR UNDERGRADUATE AND POST-GRADUATE
PROGRAMMES OF THE UNIVERSITY
ORDINANCE-II
This Ordinance shall apply to all programmes leading to all Bachelor's/ Master's degrees
of Netaji Subhas University of Technology (other than those programmes for which a
separate Ordinance may be notified) from Academic Session 2019-2020.
1. Definitions:
1.1. An Academic Year shall mean a period of nearly twelve months devoted
to completion of requirements specified in the Scheme of Courses and
Evaluation.
1.2. Academic Programme shall mean a programme of courses and/or any
other component leading to a Bachelor's/Master's degree.
1.3. Board of Management (BoM) shall mean the Board of Management of
the University.
1.4. Board of Studies (BoS) shall mean the Board of Studies of the
Department concerned, offering the programme.
1.5. CGPA shall mean Cumulative Grade Point Average.
1.6. Controller of Examinations (CoE) shall mean the Controller of
Examinations of the University.
1.7. Course shall mean a component of the academic programme, carrying a
distinctive code number and specific credits assigned to it.
1.8. Regulations shall mean the Regulations made for overall governance of
admission, teaching and evaluation of the students and all other related
issues, in the various undergraduate and post-graduate programmes of the
University as recommended by the Senate and approved by the Board of
Management.
1.9. Senate shall mean the Senate of the University
1.10. Student shall mean a candidate admitted to any of the academic
programmes, to which this Ordinance is applicable.
1.11. University shall mean Netaji Subhas University of Technology.
2. Academic Programmes: All Undergraduate and Postgraduate programmes
offered by the University shall have Regulations duly recommended and approved
by the Senate and the Board of Management.
3. Admissions: Admission to each programme of study shall be governed by the
respective Regulations.
4. Examination Fees: The University shall notify the applicable fees for different
programmes. Students are required to make the fee payment as notified.
5. Programmes curriculum, duration, structure and withdrawal: These aspects
of all the programmes would be dealt with as per the concerned Regulations.
6. Academic Calendar: The academic schedule of undergraduate and postgraduate
programmes shall be governed by the respective academic calendar.
7. Attendance and detention: Students shall maintain the required attendance in
the registered courses as prescribed in the Regulations. Failure to do so may lead
to detention.
8. Passing a Course and promotion: Criteria for Passing Courses, Promotion,
Grades and Divisions would be as per the specified Regulations applicable to the
concerned course(s).
9. Evaluation, Assessment, Grading and Examination: There shall be a well
defined procedure for examination. The evaluation, assessment and grading shall
be done as per the Regulations. Examination shall be governed by the guidelines
as notified by the Controller of Examinations.
Examinations of the University shall be open to students of the University for a
period as prescribed in the concerned Regulations.
The Senate may allow any other category of candidates to take the University
Examinations for any specified academic programme subject to the fulfillment of
such conditions as may be laid down by the Senate from time to time.
10. Students' Grievances: University shall take appropriate measures to address
various students' grievances.
11. Result, Award of Degrees and Medals: The results of all the University
examinations shall be declared by the CoE, on completion of the semester.
Degrees and Medals shall be awarded as stipulated in the Regulations.
12. Curriculum Upgradation: The curriculum shall be updated periodically as and
when considered necessary, to keep pace with the advancements in the subject
areas of the concerned programme.
13. Migration from NSIT (University of Delhi) during transition period:
Migration from NSIT, University of Delhi, to NSUT shall be allowed for the
students having year-back and his/her credits shall be transferred as per the
University norms. Migration shall not be permitted from any other University.
14. Student exchange programme: Transfer of credits from the Organizations, with
which the University has an MOU to NSUT, shall be allowed as per the
University rules.
15. If a regulation is issued by the statutory regulation body, and the same is at
variance with the provisions of this ordinance, then the regulation of the statutory
regulatory body shall prevail, pending amendment in the ordinance.
16. Notwithstanding anything stated in this Ordinance, for any unforeseen issues
arising and not covered by this Ordinance or in the event of differences of
interpretation, the Vice-Chancellor may take a decision.
*************
