Training and
Placement
 Placement Policy(Students)
2024-25
 1  https://www.tnpnsut.in
Table of Content
 2  https://www.tnpnsut.in
 Introduction  Page 3
 Eligibility  Page 4
 Eligibility and Company Classification  Page 5
 Eligibility and PPO Policies  Page 8
 Eligibility and Acceptance of Offer  Page 9
 CGPA Calculation and Drop Subject  Page 11
 Penalty Structure  Page 13
 Query Resolution Process  Page 14
 Contact  Page 15
3  https://www.tnpnsut.in
 Introduction
 The placement policy will be applicable to all students registered for the 2024-25 campus
placements of NSUT Delhi and is to be followed for the entire duration of the placement season.
The role of the Training and Placements is of a facilitator and counselor for placement related
activities.
Training and Placements does NOT guarantee a job.
 •  T&P placement services are available only to students registered on Placement
Portal(https://www.tnpnsut.in/).
 •  Applying for a company or joining a company is entirely the responsibility or decision of the
student concerned.
Training and Placements serves as a guiding force and advisor for all placement-related endeavors,
ensuring a seamless transition from academia to industry for our students
The placement season will be conducted in hybrid mode; This flexibility allows each participating
company to choose the mode of their recruitment process, whether online, offline, or a
combination of both, ensuring inclusivity and accessibility for all students.
4  https://www.tnpnsut.in
 Eligibility
 A student can participate in the placement process of a company subject to the
following conditions:
 1. He/ She meets the requirements/eligibility criteria specified
a. By the company
b. By the placement policy
2. He/She is registered on Placement Portal and is a student/Alumini of NSUT.
 Eligibility Criteria set by Company:
 He/She meets the requirements/eligibility criteria such as min. CGPA, Degree,
Branch, Passing Year, etc set by the company.
 Eligibility Criteria set by Placement Policy:
 He/She meets the requirements/Policy criteria/rules set by Placements Policy
such as CAP Criteria,PPO Criteria,Acceptance of offers,drop criteria, Internship,
off Campus offers,Rules &Regulation etc
 Note:
 •  Students who get an on-campus placement opportunity, must accept the offer
within 24 hours and submit a duly filled undertaking.
 •  Students are eligible to participate in placements only if they have a login ID on
the Placement Portal by May 25, 2024. Requests for new ID creation will not be
entertained after this date.
5  https://www.tnpnsut.in
 Eligibility and Company
Classification
 Each company is categorized as Dream or A++ and sub-categorized into TECH, NON-TECH and
CORE. The category of each company is decided by the Training and Placements as per the
below mentioned Criteria.
 For Tech Roles:
 ●  Dream Category >= 13 LPA
 ●  A++ Category < 13 LPA
For Non - Tech Roles:
 ●  Dream Category >= 7 LPA
 ●  A++ Category < 7 LPA
For Core Roles:
 ●  Dream Category >= 6 LPA
 ●  A++ Category < 6 LPA
 Note:
 1. If a student is placed in an A++ Tech Company offering < 13 LPA. He/She is restricted from
applying in other Categories (Non-Tech and Core)
2. He/she can only apply for further Dream Tech opportunities, If and only if they satisfy the
cap criteria of the Tech company
3. If student is placed in an A++ Non-Tech Company offering <7LPA. He/She is restricted from
applying in other Categories (Tech and Core)
4. He/she can only apply in further Dream Non-Tech opportunities, If and only if they satisfy
the cap criteria of the Non-Tech company
5. If a student is placed in an A++ Tech Company offering <6 LPA. He/She is restricted from
applying in other Categories(Tech and Core)
6. He/she can only apply in further Dream Core opportunities, If and only if they satisfy the
Cap Criteria of the core company
6  https://www.tnpnsut.in
 Eligibility and Company
Classification
 Furthermore, the companies are divided into 3 subcategories:
 ●  Tech Roles
 ●  Non-Tech Roles
 ●  Core Roles
 •  If a student is placed in a specific sub category, he/she cannot apply for any different
subcategory even in a higher category company.
 •  For example, if a student is placed in a Non-Tech company of A++ category, he/she will not be
allowed to appear for Tech or Core company of any category even if the cap is satisfied.
 •  No requests will be entertained to change the sub category once any offer is accepted by the
student in a particular category
 •  In case of an on-campus offer, all the organizations having, 13 LPA and above in case of Tech
Roles (SDE,SWE etc.), 7 LPA and above in case of Non-Tech (Product Analyst, Sales, Marketing,
Business Development, Consultant etc.), and 6 LPA and above in case of Core (related to ICE,
MPAE, ME,EE, BT, ECE, etc.) will be considered under the DREAM category.
7  https://www.tnpnsut.in
 Eligibility and Company
Classification
 Category Policies:
 •  T&P will internally see the  size of the batch placed ,  frequency of companies  and  CTC  offered
by the company to  decide/change CAP criteria  during Placement Season.
 •  Students should make their choices to appear in the companies carefully as no request to
change the cap will be accepted by T&P.
 •  Placed Students will be allowed to sit for further opportunities based on the Cap Criteria set by
T&P only after 75 percent of the batch has been placed.
 •  (Non-Tech) E.g. a student has got an offer from a Company having 5 LPA CTC. Now, if another
firm comes at a later stage with 11LPA & Cap criteria is set to be 6LPA, then all the students
having Package below or equal to Cap criteria (in this case 6 LPA) will be eligible to appear for
the opportunity.
 •  (Tech) E.g. a student has got an offer from a Company having 8 LPA CTC. Now, if another firm
comes at a later stage with 15 LPA & Cap criteria is set to be 8LPA, then all the students having
Package below or equal to Cap criteria (in this case 8 LPA) will be eligible to appear for the
opportunity.
 •  (Core) E.g. a student has got an offer from a Company having 4 LPA CTC. Now, if another firm
comes at a later stage with 8LPA & Cap criteria is set to be 5 LPA, then all the students having
Package below or equal to Cap criteria (in this case 5 LPA) will be eligible to appear for the
opportunity. If a student receives an offer from a Tech company, then they cannot apply for
Non-Tech or Core companies and the same will be true for Non-Tech and Core companies.
8  https://www.tnpnsut.in
 Eligibility and PPO Policy
 •  In case of an on-campus offer, all the organizations will be having:
1. 13 LPA and above in case of Tech roles
2. 7 LPA and above in case of Non-Tech Roles
3. 5 LPA and above in case of Core roles
will be composed under the DREAM category.
 •  You should make your choice to appear in the companies carefully as no request to
change the cap will be accepted by T&P.
 •  If a student has been offered a PPO from Dream Company  he/she will not be allowed
to sit for Placements session 2024-25
9  https://www.tnpnsut.in
 Eligibility and Acceptance
of Offer
 Offer Acceptance Rules and Regulations
 •  A student who has accepted an offer is expected to join on the given joining date. If a student
does not join after he/she has accepted the offer, a penalty will be imposed by the institute or
No dues, NoC/Degree will not be issued to the defaulters.
 •  Any complaints regarding attrition received from the company post joining may lead to strict
actions from the University against the student. The University will impose a penalty or not issue
NOC, No dues and degree/certificates to the defaulters.
 •  It is mandatory for students to serve a minimum 6 months of time period at a company after
accepting the offer letter and joining if he/she wishes to leave the company, it is important to
complete all the formalities including the notice period service as per the company norms. Any
complaints regarding attrition received from the company post joining may lead to strict actions
from the University against the student. The University will impose a penalty OR would not issue
NOC, No dues and degree to the defaulters
 •  A Training and Placement Coordinator who has demonstrated outstanding performance in their
role shall be eligible for a second offer, provided that at least 45% of the entire batch has been
placed with any type of offer. This eligibility applies only if the coordinator has been placed in an
A++ category company.
 •  If a student does not accept the offer or does not join the company after acceptance due to
pursuing higher studies (MBA, MS, or any UPSC entrance examination) (in India or Abroad), the
student needs to inform the placement cell as soon as possible (latest by 15th May, 2025) along
with the relevant proofs. No penalty of any kind will be imposed, if the above is reported to the
placement office in the defined timeline.
 •  Proper action will be taken against student, if he/She violates the rules for offer acceptance
10  https://www.tnpnsut.in
 Eligibility and Acceptance
of Offer
 Off-Campus Offer Rules
 •  Students who have an on-campus offer in a dream category company and choose to accept an
off-campus offer will be penalized or No dues, NoC will not be issued to the defaulters as
decided by the T&P. Only after paying the penalty will they be allowed to accept the off-campus
offer (leading to rejection of on-campus offer).
 •  Students who have an off-Campus offer in dream category company are not allowed to sit for
on-campus offer If this to be found at later stage will be penalized or No dues, NoC, Degree will
not be issued to the defaulters as decided by the T&P.
 •  If a student receives an off-campus placement offer, they must email an undertaking to
tnpcell@nsitonline.in and cc it to tnpcell@nsut.ac.in within 48 hours of receiving the offer.
Failure to comply will result in penalties, including the withholding of NOC/Degree.
 •  Undertaking Link: Will be shared
 Internship Offer Rules
 •  Students who have received a 6-month Internship+FTE will not be allowed to apply in any
further opportunities, Whereas Students who have received only a 6-month internship offer
from an organization will be allowed to apply for Full-Time Opportunities only after 50% of the
entire batch has been placed.No queries or requests related to this matter will be entertained.
 •  A 6-month internship followed by a performance-based Performance based Placement Offer
(PPO) shall be treated as an internship + Full-Time Employment (FTE) offer. In such cases,
these students shall be eligible for a second offer only after 75% of the entire batch has been
placed. No queries or requests related to this matter will be entertained.
 •  ONLY FOR BTech CANDIDATE:  If a student receives a six-month internship offer, T&P will not
issue a NoC and will not be held responsible for maintaining attendance records. But can do a
six-month internship, if he/she has completed 162 Credits. Students can take NoC from their
respective departments.
 •  Students interning at an organization that will be visiting the campus for recruitment, under
no circumstances are allowed to inform the company officials about the placement schedule
(i.e. details about companies visited and companies that will be visiting the campus). Students
are advised to contact the POC of that particular company in such a situation.
11  https://www.tnpnsut.in
 CGPA Calculation and Drop Subject
 Drop Subject Rules
 Kindly refer below table regarding Subject drop policy for various Courses:
 NOTE**:
 •  Zero credit foundation electives such as yoga, sports, NPTEL(of Zero credit) are neither included
in active backlogs nor counted in drop subjects for placement opportunities.
 •  The students are therefore requested to not include these subjects and only drop subjects with
credits while calculating their CGPA after drop.
 •  Furthermore, please note that this rule is applicable only for placements.
 •  If anyone has active backlogs and tries to drop the subjects, this will not be counted in the active
backlog (Only valid For Training & Placement).
 •  A student can drop at max 2 active Backlog.
 •  Even if a student doesn’t have an active backlog, then he can also drop 2 subjects having
the lowest grade points.
 •  Request to drop 2 subjects of 2 credits will not be entertained for MTech, BBA, MBA, MA, MSc
 Courses  No. of subjects allowed to drop for respective courses
 BTech(Final year)  A student from BTech can drop at most 8 credits and 2 subject.
 BTech(Pre-Final Year)  A student from BTech can drop at most 4 credits and 1 subject.
 MTech  A student from MTech can drop at most 4 credits and 1 subject.
 BBA  A student from BBA can drop at most 4 credits and 1 subject.
 MBA  A student from MBA can drop at most 4 credit and 1 subject.
 MA  A student from MA can drop at most 4 credits and 1 subject.
 MSc  A student from MSc can drop at most 4 credits and 1 subject.
 BDesign  A student from BDesign can drop at most 8 credits and 2 subject.
12  https://www.tnpnsut.in
 CGPA Calculation and Drop Subject
 CGPA calculation Formula and Rules
 CGPA before Drop will be calculated using following formula:
CGPA after Drop(Final CGPA) will be calculated using following formula:
 Note:
 •  Students are required to use the CGPA displayed on the Portal for all placement-related
communications. If there is an error in the CGPA displayed, students must promptly rectify it by
sending an email to placementsin@nsut.ac.in.
 •  Students are prohibited from disclosing the policy of dropping a Subject to recruiters. They must
only provide their final CGPA .
 •  The CGPA with Drop should only be used when clearly specified by the Training and Placements
for a specific Company.
 •  Students are required to use CGPA without Drop when applying for off-campus opportunities.
 •  The CGPA mentioned by students on the Training and Placement Portal, resumes, CV and forms
submitted for training and placement purposes must remain consistent.
 •  Students must ensure that the CGPA mentioned across all platforms is the same as their final
CGPA (CGPA after drop). Any disparities or manipulation of data may result in penalties imposed
by the Training and Placements.
 •  This formula will be used for T&P purpose only.
13  https://www.tnpnsut.in
 Penalty Structure
 •  Any student who violates the rules & regulations laid down by the Training &
Placement Cell will be penalized with a penalty depending on the extent of the
breach of policies.
 •  Students are strictly advised against below mentioned actions as it will lead to
his/her debarment from the placement season. The T&P cell reserves the
discretion to determine the extent of ban imposed.
 •  The T&P reserves the right to take a set of following action(s) against those
students who are found in violation of placement rules.
1. Cancellation of one or more offers.
2. Temporary removal from the placement portal as decided by T&P.
3. Debarment from the entire placement season.
 •  Basic Penalty Structure:
 ▪  1. Cheating found by T&P (Training and Placement Office): A minimum 7 days or 5 eligible
companies ban will be imposed if cheating is detected during online/offline tests.
 ▪  2. Cheating found by Companies:  A severe penalty of a minimum 30 days or 25 eligible
companies ban (whichever is lesser) if cheating is detected directly by recruiting companies. This
underscores the importance of honesty and integrity when interacting with potential employers.
 ▪  3. Formals, PPT & attendance : Students are required to adhere to formal attire, during
placement-related events including PPT and tests. Failure to do so will bring a minimum of 5
companies ban or 3 days ban.
 ▪  4. Misbehavior with Recruiters : Any form of misconduct or disrespect towards company
personnel results in a minimum 30 days ban.
 ▪  5. Misbehavior with Placement Committee: Similar to misbehavior with HR, misconduct towards
the placement committee carries consequences. The penalty is either a minimum of 3 days or 5
eligible companies ban.
 ▪  7. Second Violation: In case of second Violation min penalty will be doubled .
 ▪  6. Third Violation: In case of third violation of any of these rules leads to a permanent ban. This
strict measure emphasizes the zero-tolerance policy towards repeated violations, ensuring that
students understand the gravity of their actions.
14  https://www.tnpnsut.in
 Basic Rules & Guidelines
 •  Unauthorized student interaction with organization executives, including HR, will result in
removal from the placement portal. Exceptions are made when directed by the Placement Team
or during Q&A sessions, where professional conduct is expected.
 •  All the information shared through e-mail/portal or any other mode should be kept confidential
and sharing any such information with anyone will lead to ban from the placement season.
 •  No student is allowed to disclose the details of the placement session (commencement of
the placement session, details about other visiting companies) during their interview, or
later to the company’s executive (s). Strict action will be taken against the defaulters.
 •  No student is allowed to post any details about their internship/placement offers or PPO on
LinkedIn, Facebook or any other social media till the month of March 2025. Strict actions will be
taken against the defaulters and offers can also be revoked in this case.
 •  Students must be formally dressed and report before time whenever they participate in the
recruitment process of any company.
 •  Only registered candidates would be allowed to sit for the process, requests to register after the
deadline will not be entertained. The students should register in the time frame allotted for the
registration.
 •  Students must conduct themselves professionally and courteously with company
representatives, refraining from argumentative behavior and maintaining decorum at all times,
even when provoked.
 •  If there are any issues from the recruiter’s side that students face, the students are requested to
kindly inform the T&P Office immediately and mail T&P.
 •  If for whatever reasons the student remains absent from any stage/round of selection process
he/she would be immediately De-registered from T&P Portal and would be banned from
participating in the further placement processes. Regular absenteeism may lead to imposition
of permanent ban from the complete placement season.
 •  The Training and Placement department reserves the discretionary authority to provide
additional concessions and benefits to Placement Coordinators as deemed appropriate.
 •  Please read these policies carefully and follow all the instructions. All these rules are for
seamless placement drives, and they are created to encourage maximum batch
placement.
 •  For all matters not covered by the above regulations, the T&P will use its discretion to
take appropriate decisions. The decision taken by T&P shall be binding on all students.
15  https://www.tnpnsut.in
 Query Resolution
 Data discrepancy on the Placement Portal:
 The student must send an email with the necessary details to
placementsin@nsut.ac.in.
 Inquiries regarding the company’s process:
 The student should reach out to the Point of Contact (POC) listed on the
company’s form. If there is no POC mentioned, the student may contact the
relevant Training and Placement Coordinator for assistance.
 For requests of No Objection Certificate (NOC):
 Students must complete the form provided below. Upon submission, they will
receive the NOC certificate within 2 working days.
 Form Link: Go to www.tnpnsut.in --> Download/links --> Apply for NOC
16  https://www.tnpnsut.in
 Contact
 Training and Placement Section, NSUT
 Web: https://www.tnpnsut.in
